foreign
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
wow how's it going Joe
uh
man uh it has been full on it it you
know creating
the decisions course has been like uh
you know lots of content in a short
period of time it's I'm loving it and
it's definitely not a lot of breathing
space in the last couple weeks how about
you man how are you yeah I'm doing
really well I just got off of a really
good coaching session and something that
came up in that session was the golden
algorithm which oh yeah you know even
speaking about this for a little while
and we haven't done a full episode on it
yet
and I'm really excited to to do that
yeah that sounds fun let's do it that
sounds great
yeah yeah all right so then what let's
you look you look jazzed though I just
have to say like you like you look
really Jazz like it I'm wondering is it
was it a deeply felt uh uh coaching
session it feels like you're very
embodied yeah yeah it was it was very
very deeply felt and there was just like
a constant kind of a theme of
leaving leaving self leaving the present
experience and recognizing it and then
coming back
and just noticing all the different ways
that that happens in the moment and then
just coming right back and so we just
spent so much of a session in
you know in embodiment and so I mean
that just I get so much out of it when
when that's how a session goes yeah uh
yeah yeah awesome oh yeah I love that
cool
awesome and I can see how that would
relate to the golden algorithm that's
wonderful okay so yeah let's uh let's
let's talk about Golden algorithm what
do you what do you want to ask
yeah so I mean we'll just start what is
it
oh yeah so I mean the most basic way to
say it is
um
uh
whatever we're avoiding emotionally we
are inviting
into our lives
in the exact way that we are avoiding it
so if we are trying to avoid
uh
uh sadness then we the way that we try
to avoid the sadness
is inviting the sadness the other way to
see it is that if you are having a
problem any problem at all there is an
emotion that you are trying to avoid
and by in the way that you're trying to
avoid it you are bringing it towards you
and so this is like the emotional Center
of all the problems that we have
so that's and and and I'm not a huge fan
of the golden algorithm I don't know how
else to call because it is it's so
critical it's so important it and and
once you get it it makes such a huge
difference in your life so I wanted to
call it something really important and
and however I
yeah just no I'm just noticing that the
name of it I don't want it to be
you know glorified or anything just that
it's just super important if you're
really once you rock it it can totally
change your life so yeah yeah I'm gonna
send you a golden algorithm statue for
your desk
actually that kind of sounds cool
name a problem that that you're very
familiar with either you have had in the
past or somebody you know is having now
but you can name you know all the parts
of the problem and everything that's
happening there so yeah and then how
about it's how about it's you know
wanting to work out
and then just having a hard time getting
motivated to go to the gym great okay so
want to work out and not doing it and
then when you see somebody in that or
you've been in that yourself what's one
just one of the emotions that might be
being avoided there
yeah I'd say let's say guilt great guilt
okay and so what would be a strategy
that a person uses to avoid feeling that
guilt
yeah well I guess one one thing that
might come up is that the moment you
think about going to the gym you feel
all the negative self-talk about how
you're not in shape and you feel that
guilt and then you
instead go do something else like go to
the fridge
right okay so so the way that some some
people handle the feeling of guilt of
that they they arise is to go eat
instead of go work out
yeah right which then of course creates
more guilt
right so that's how the algorithm works
like here's give us another one we
should do like three or four of these
just any other problem that somebody's
having yeah let's say
let's say somebody feels
put upon or frustrated by a partner
with a partner you know great being yeah
yeah and so what would be an emotion
that that person would be avoiding when
they get frustrated with a partner well
they might avoid feeling anger
great they might afford avoid the anger
and so what do they do when they avoid
feeling angry
so when they avoid feeling angry they
might suppress the anger push it down
yeah and then you know come around
passive aggressively to try to get what
they want without being correct right
and so the more passive aggressive they
are the more the people around them get
angry and frustrated with them which
brings up more anger in them therefore
the strategy in which they're avoiding
the anger is creating more anger in
their life
so this is so another like example of
this so when I was
younger a big thing for me was that I
was really didn't like emotional
abandonment I felt horror you know is
the trauma that I had so I was
constantly trying to avoid it and every
time I started to feel like I was
getting emotionally abandoned I would
get hard I would get defended
and I would get like short with people
and of course people are more likely to
emotionally abandon me or abandon me
altogether if I'm being a prick which is
what I was being so that's another
example of it but the important part is
that every single problem that we're
having this is how it works
there's no problem that you can mention
that you're having that doesn't have an
emotion that's trying to be avoided and
in that strategy of avoiding the emotion
is recreating it and oftentimes there's
several emotions that that you may be
trying to avoid
and so when you get to see that when you
get to see oh wow every one of my
problems is a emotion being avoided
oh
and then it becomes really clear how to
solve a lot of problems really quickly
it's to
fully
love and invite and welcome your
emotional experiences
okay so you said there every single
problem so to play The Devil's Advocate
a little bit what if the problem I'm
having is that I was hit by a car and
I'm injured
or I've tried everything and I haven't
found a job while the economy is tanking
it's like what what scope of problems
are we talking about here when you say
every single problem yeah yeah so it's
interesting so what I'm talking about
here is the reoccurring problems in our
lives specifically
and I'm also talking about when we feel
like there is a problem so but this the
algorithm is really useful especially
for the reoccurring problems in our
lives but let's take for example
uh the getting in a car accident now
let's assume for some reason there's
absolutely not your fault there was no
way that your emotional
you know your your emotionality in that
moment influenced it and it was just out
of left field or let's say a a tree fell
on your car while you were driving right
completely not within your control
obviously the emotional uh the emotional
the thing you're trying to avoid
emotionally didn't cause the tree to
drop on your car
however
how you handle that and how quickly you
recover from that and
deeply are influenced by the emotions
that you are allowing yourself to feel
and not feel
so recently I've been working with
somebody and they had something
significant stolen from them and I mean
just tremendously significant and
them blaming themselves for that
and trying to avoid the feeling of deep
sadness and grief and anger
is making that recovery time take a
tremendous longer than it would
otherwise the amount of shame that they
are are using to block the emotions or
to not fully feel and love into their
shame that so to some degree
it's a problem because the emotions that
you're feeling aren't being are being
resisted and and that makes it a bigger
problem instead of oh this is this fluid
thing that's moving through me
we have all had something stolen from us
and there's a time when it's a problem
and there's a time when it's not a
problem and
it maybe never feels good but there's
there's a time when it wraps us up and
I'll call that a problem and there's a
time when we're we've let go of it and
how we deeply feel into those emotions
and allow those emotions has a huge
influence on whether it's currently a
problem or not a problem in our life so
that's first thing
um
also we often are stuck because there's
no short term way to feel good right so
again using that
same metaphor of a tree dropping on your
car
there's no way that you can feel good
about that right away there's no choice
you can make you can try to pretend oh
it's great it's just a car no big deal
or whatever but there is some sort of
emotional thing that's going to go
through you that is potentially not very
comfortable and to try to avoid that
is what makes that a longer problem a
more consistent problem the problem that
repeats itself not in the case of the
car but the problem that would replace
it repeat itself in the case of the car
is how you react to loss
how how uh paralyzed you are when
accidents happen how quickly you can
recover those things
um and then I'd say finally
um
we're never completely the full Dynamic
right so in this case with the car and
the tree falling on it that we were not
at all part of that Dynamic even though
we might beat ourselves up over it
we're never fully the dynamic we're
never fully a part of any of the
Dynamics that create what we call
problems in our lives
um the tool isn't meant to assign blame
the tool isn't meant as a way that you
get to beat yourself up oh if I only
would have felt this it's meant as a oh
here is a way that I can move through my
problems more quickly here's a way that
I can stop repeating patterns
that's what I mean so it sounds like a
lot of what you're saying there is it's
not necessarily the problem it's like
the it's the stuckness that we feel in
relationship to the problem which
sometimes makes certain problems feel
far more ongoing
yeah or or I'm making a distinction
between
something that's happening in our life
that needs to be addressed and a problem
a problem being something that consumes
us and
guides us and pushes us and we rebel
against and resist yeah yeah rather than
a random occurrence yeah exactly got it
okay well then let's let's move on and
talk about what makes this work yeah the
easiest way to describe it is that
there is no problem if you're like if
you're feeling great
so so let's just say for instance your
company you're you're facing your
company's implosion and
and in that implosion you knew you were
going to feel great and you were going
to feel free and you were going to feel
successful
what's the problem with your company
imploding
or let's say I was going to get a
divorce
and I knew that I was going to
feel wonderful about the outcome
that I could look around and I would go
wow this is exactly what needed to
happen
and I can see the benefits of it and
like there's just like a full feeling of
freedom and success and
and joy in the result then there's no
problem so what I what I mean to say is
that what what we call material problems
out in the world what they really are
emotional problems
what they really are is that we don't
want to feel a certain way
and so that's what makes this work
so if we could just paper over all of
our negative feelings and feel positive
feelings regardless of our company
falling apart and everybody getting laid
off and
then we're good right
[Laughter]
you know people have tried that it
doesn't work but I like I like the
thought that was great yeah so yeah so I
think if I'm if I'm taking the question
of it does that mean like oh we
so it's not having the positive emotions
that get you where you want to go it's
not avoiding the negative ones that get
you where you want to go so it's not
you know it's not like oh if I'm happy
then I'm gonna you know make great
decisions if I'm happy
that that's it's helpful if you're
authentically happy
what the issue is is far more about not
avoiding negative ones the cause of the
pain is in the avoidance of the negative
emotions
yeah and that's why that's why being
positive all the time doesn't work we've
all met the person who's oh I'm positive
all the time and you're like their life
is right yeah right and it's not
authentic it's not what they're actually
feeling correct so
so this seems like a pretty simple
algorithm it's just
what you're avoiding you invite in and
exactly the way you're avoiding it you
create a blind spot you're going to get
blindsided in your blind spot that's
just how it works so what makes this
hard for us to just see in our daily
lives if it's if it's so simple yeah
yeah you know it's so strange it's it it
it took me a long time to even be able
to articulate it and and I still notice
when I'm articulating it to folks it
confuses
people so it is it's a challenging thing
to see even though it's so simple
and probably some of the people
listening to this their minds are going
numb currently so so one of the issues
is the one I just talked about which is
that we think our problems are material
when they're actually
we're using the material world as a as a
strategy to feel a certain way
we want to feel good and we think that
the fast car and the Beautiful
spouse and the and the happy children
are going to do that
and and so we we're using the material
problems as a surrogate for the
emotional and so that's the first one so
you have to undo that
thesis that the material world is going
to make you happy
and I think that's something that every
major religion points to in in its own
way
that it's you're never going to get the
happiness you want from the external
world
and then the other thing is that it's
um hard to admit that
it's happening because we're avoiding
stuff right it's like because there is a
there's that movement that you just
described which all of a sudden is going
to be self-abuse oh it's my fault for
avoiding this all of these problems are
my fault
that by itself is more avoidance
right that is more like to to beat
yourself up over this is just another
way not to feel it right so let's say
I'm avoiding sadness and I start beating
myself up it's just another way to avoid
feeling sadness
um
so that's another reason that it's
really tough to see
it's tough because we can't blame
anybody else anymore
and including ourselves
so if you really take a look at it
blaming yourself is another way to avoid
other uncomfortable emotions
so and and I'm sure we can describe that
later and the other issue is time
dilation which is basically there is the
short-term feeling good and the long
term feeling good
and so the avoidance is I'm going to
trade long I'm going to trade feeling
good in the long term for feeling
adequate in the short term feeling okay
or feeling just a little bit better in
the short term
and so our reward system is a mammal was
built in such a way for short-term
rewards to be the important one because
we didn't have psychological development
then right mammals it's not from what we
know they don't have identity and so
they're not protecting their identity
they're not protecting their psychology
they're not protecting their sense of
self and so
when you're dealing with oh I eat that
mushroom and it causes me pain it's a
great thing to avoid
when it's oh I um
somebody calls points out some way that
I'm an error
and it causes me pain so I get defensive
it doesn't work so well so that's the
other problem is that it it it's
it's learning that our
emotional the way we are emotionally
evolved doesn't work for a sense of
identity
yeah okay so the time dilation thing
that that's interesting to me there's
there's sort of an objection that comes
up where
I think a lot of people actually engage
in this avoidance behavior because they
think they're doing something for their
future like you know I'm just going to
keep giving things away to this client
because then they're gonna like me and
I'm gonna get the bigger project in the
future but what actually is being
created is
that I'm going to come back and be like
have behaviors that seem
entitled or
aggressive when later on I start to feel
like I've given too much and they took
it and didn't you know give me enough in
return or something
yeah so the key there is is
what is the choice that you're making uh
for instance giving the client a whole
bunch of stuff without naming that you
want something in return is that an
avoidance behavior or is that uh
something that you're doing out of
strategy
and the only way to know that is to feel
in your system oh am I avoiding anything
and to go and feel it
so there's obviously times that we
will take short-term pain for long-term
gain however this is very much in the
avoidance of an emotion that's the
really critical component to notice and
if you're not avoiding it then great
so there's a there's a different way of
kind of flipping this which is that to
be
to have the preference for feeling the
short-term pain despite
it's a it's it's discomfort
for what we know is a long-term best
outcome is the thing that allows us to
move through this
yes the only thing that I would change
about that is that the it's not actually
painful right it's the resistance too
it's just painful however we might label
that yeah yeah and it's not even that
that's what I mean to say is that the
emotions themselves are not the painful
piece it's the resistance to them and so
part of the path of
noticing all these emotions that we're
avoiding is when we invite and welcome
the men they change they they don't feel
as uncomfortable as they used to
yeah yeah so how does how does knowing
that we are avoiding these emotions help
us
right yeah instead of yeah it's funny
because we do this exercise where people
do that thing that we just did over and
over and over again they just see all of
the problems that they're having and how
each one is in avoided motion and and I
was with some people doing that a couple
days ago and someone's like how does
this help us like Christ what are you
doing that's just making us feel like ah
and I said that's exactly why to do it
is because now you're motivated to
change it like if all you have to do is
just
invite and welcome emotion and you don't
have to suffer for all in all these
reasons like what would make you not do
it so one thing is because it does help
us solve the problem
um and it also
it makes our decisions cleaner as soon
as we notice that we're running away
from an emotion and uh uncomfortable
emotion and also uh
um
once we start doing it and then solving
that problem once we start inviting and
welcoming the emotions because we see
this is the issue it just makes a lot of
our habits that we don't like go away
because we're no longer using them to
run away from emotional experiences
makes the decision making cleaner makes
us less defensive all those things
yeah and it's in the emotion that we're
avoiding that is like like that emotion
contains the information needed to get
out of the situation
that's right yeah yeah if you think
about each of these emotions as data
and it's all important data
and you've been rejecting the data and
you don't have the the tools you need to
solve the problem because you've been
rejecting the data the other way to
think about it is
you know that you have that kitchen
drawer I've had the CEO said to me one
time I love this um
she said like my job as a CEO is to look
in all the kitchen drawers that nobody
wants to look in right there's at the
drawer where everything just gets shoved
my job and is to open them up and look
in them and sort out what's in there
that that everybody else is avoiding and
it's the same thing it's the same thing
here it's that that that's the that's
the work and and you open the door and
you have that first moment of oh crap
and then when it's all cleaned and
organized and
it feels great okay so so let's say we
we recognize that all the problems in
our life
I even feel like some pre- attack from
someone in the audience when I say all
yeah
um I'm just gonna say generally
so we've we've let's let's say we take
on this tool this perspective let's do
better I would say
I say all let I'm gonna I'm gonna dig
the big plunge and say all and if
somebody in the audience can find one
that isn't where this isn't the case
where they they they can't find an
emotion they're avoiding inside of a
problem that they're having
then please let us know because I would
like to find one that where that's not
the case
so I will say all but I want proof I
want proof that I'm because I would love
to see what I might be missing yeah
yeah okay okay so like let's say we take
on this perspective all of the problems
that we have in our life yeah are
res are resulting from us avoiding
emotions and we are bringing those
problems into our lives in exactly the
way we're avoiding those emotions let's
say we take on this perspective what are
some of the pitfalls that can happen if
we take on this perspective
and over index on it or get it slightly
off like what what's some of the dangers
of
you know taking this as like let's say
like to the extreme making it a Dogma
yeah that's great I love that question
it's like a hammer is a great tool but
how can you misuse it and so right so
I'd say one of the pitfalls in using the
tool is the depth in which you're using
it and this is kind of the opposite of a
pitfall which is
it means it doesn't work as well unless
you go into the depths so if you're if
you say what's the thing I'm avoiding
I'm avoiding pain that's not gonna work
as well as
um
uh
I'm avoiding helplessness
and so
so that's one thing and I want to talk
about depth a little bit later as well
because there's a there's a cool thing
that goes along with it from what I can
tell
but other things is that uh
another issue with the tool is that you
might still repeat these patterns that
come up if
because you found one of the emotions
you're avoiding but you haven't found
all the emotions you're avoiding so one
of the pitfalls of the tool is that it's
only one emotion at a time and a lot of
times people make the assumption that
there's only one emotion they're
avoiding
um another Pitfall that um
tool is if you're not learning how to
feel into the feelings so it's only half
of a tool so seeing the feelings that
you avoid is one thing but until you can
feel into them welcome them love them
invite them in
it's nothing's going to change there
actually has to be that not avoidance of
it but they're also has to be the
learning to welcome it and there's a
space in between those two
a lot of people and I would call it like
indulging uncomfortable emotions
and so
it's really about having the mental
attitude of
I want to understand this I want to
explore it I want to listen to it I want
to hear the information it has I want to
respect it I want to give it the love
that it never got I want to welcome it
and I'm not here to try to change it I'm
here to just fully be with appreciate
this emotional experience
so and if you're not doing that
you know it's not gonna it's not gonna
be of great benefit to you and then the
last one is the one we've already talked
about is people can beat themselves up
over it they can say oh
I Now understand everything's my fault
because I'm not feeling into emotions
which is both not feeling into emotions
and
a way to avoid emotions so
yeah I think the latter is really common
if you're in depression like yes if the
feeling is shame I noticed I went
through a period of time with this where
it was for me it was shame and I didn't
realize that it was actually kind of
indulging in the shame and that being in
the shames felt safe it felt like
somebody was had an excuse to not be
empowered and that somebody might come
rescue me or at least be with me yeah
and so I wasn't actually allowing the
shame to move through it wasn't like I
wasn't willing to feel the shame
dissolve yeah I was willing to feel the
shame and wondering why and wonder why
it wasn't going away
yeah but not too late yeah actually yeah
shift and change and then become
whatever it was going to become right
and that would be the language that I
would use I would say that you were
feeling the shame but you weren't
welcoming the shame you weren't because
it's the welcoming that lets it move all
the way through
yeah
so a lot of people think that a lot of
people feel like these are difficult
emotions and that's why we're avoiding
them and so what would you say to
somebody who thinks that not avoiding
emotions is the hard thing
and avoiding emotions is easy so yeah
what I would say is if you think it's
easy to
regenerate over and over and over and
over again the emotion that you're
avoiding
and you think that's easy that's
I I don't like if you think about it
long term I don't understand how that
math works out that would be the first
thing I'd say the second thing I would
say is
avoiding emotions means resisting them
so not resisting them is different and
if you have a moment of not re-existing
whatever you've been avoiding
immediately you will feel the sensation
change somatically in your body and
it'll become a lot more comfortable so
until you
have really ex experimented with not
resisting an emotional state
or welcoming an emotional state you
really don't know if it's going to be
more difficult what you have in your
head is an idea
that oh every time these topics get
brought up I feel like so I want to
avoid these topics so I don't feel like
and that's the idea and it's because
nobody has ever taught you
how to be in these topics with no
resistance without the shame without the
defense
with curiosity with Wonder with
impartiality
with self-empathy
then then you'll know
then you'll know that oh wow this isn't
difficult at all this is actually it's
literally when I walk people through an
emotional inquiry exercise which is
learning to welcome and through Wonder
your emotional experience the thing I'll
say is like so you've just sat for 10
minutes with an experience that you have
avoided for decades how hard was it did
you explode you know how difficult was
it and everybody's like no it just felt
great and not always occasionally you'll
have somebody who's like oh it got a
little better but and that's usually
because they're
trying to change it they're trying to
get rid of it and that's something else
that when you're fully welcoming your
emotion and you're one of the things
that happens is you'll notice that it
starts to change and shift and then you
might start
immediately or over the long term
welcoming your emotions to make them go
away which isn't welcoming them anymore
so it stops working
so
yeah as soon as people experience it
once or twice they get it they're like
oh yeah this isn't hard this is
immediate relief
so what are what are some examples in
which this doesn't work I know and I'm
not talking about the kinds of things
we're talking about before where you
were saying if anybody can come up with
any problem in their life that this
doesn't apply to yeah but
yeah but that's why like the emotions
that we're avoiding does it work with
positive emotions
yeah in a usable way yeah
um so that's a great one so it it does
not the algorithm doesn't work
what I what I think about it is
it doesn't work with positive integers
so
I have a hard time saying that some
emotions are negative and some are
positive even though the world you
classifies it that way these are
negative and these are positive and the
reason that I have a hard time
experiencing that or saying that is
because it's not how experiencing
experience them meaning for me then
helplessness and anger and shame and all
that has like our blessings so I don't I
have a hard time calling them negative
but if we if we call them negative for
now
then the negative the algorithm works if
you're avoiding negative emotions the
algorithm doesn't work if you're
avoiding positive emotions and
so the way I would describe this is like
working out so let's say that my problem
is that my
body isn't feeling good
so it's it's feeling in what I would
call in a negative way it would be a
negative feeling and so I work out
and
and I started to work out and it doesn't
feel good so I avoid it then my body's
gonna continue to feel bad
if I work out and it doesn't feel good
because there's some resistance to it
to the working out I haven't you know it
has some pain in it and I lean in and I
welcome that pain and I look forward to
that pain and I see that pain as
information that my body starts to feel
better
and then if my body feels good
and I say oh I'm gonna work out
and I'm not going to allow the feeling
of goodness to happen
then what immediately happens is I start
feeling bad the workout feels bad and
then I stop working out and then my body
starts feeling bad
so it's the same way
if I'm feeling if I have negative
emotions and I feel into them then I
feel better
and if I have positive emotions and I
don't feel into them then I feel bad
so that's the that's the experience and
and so this is something I wanted to
speak to earlier when we talked about
shame and scene through shame so what
I've noticed is there is
there's there's
um
there's there's emotional states that
people call emotional states but they're
kind of block or emotional states and
we've talked about this with shame so I
would call these things like shame
judgment and guilt and what they do is
they stagnate the emotional experience
and so there are emotions that have to
be felt through but they're kind of the
top level because they stagnate the
emotional experience
then underneath that you have the
emotions of like sadness and anger and
helplessness and what we call negative
emotions
and then if those are all felt through
then you get to the positive emotions
and if you start feeling the positive
emotions just like working out you feel
better and better and better and better
and it goes from
like oh happiness and then there's joy
and contentment and Bliss there's like a
whole rainbow of positive emotions out
there
and it just gets more the intensity of
the of the positive emotions
gets bigger and and it's wonderful and
it can also be very scary in that
process so one of the things that I say
to describe this is joy is the matriarch
of a family of emotions and she won't
come into a house where her children
aren't welcome
and so welcoming all these negative
emotions uh what we call negative
emotions leads to Joy but feeling joy
and expansiveness and
Bliss and peacefulness can be very scary
in itself and when we stop allowing
ourselves to feel into that then we go
we revert right back to the negative
emotions
got it so that's that's why it doesn't
work with positive emotions if you if
you find out oh I'm I have this problem
because I'm avoiding this positive
emotion then the answer is feel that
positive emotion
it like lean into the positive emotion
so the answer is the same lean into the
positive emotion lean into the negative
emotion
but the avoidance doesn't bring it back
the avoidance of the negative emotion
brings a negative emotion back that
avoidance of the positive emotion
doesn't bring the positive emotion back
yeah there's a sort of what what kind of
comes up from me in processing what you
just said and there was a there was a
lot there to to process and unpack yeah
is that you know there's emotions we
might label them as positive or negative
and that's just sort of a way of
determine like a way of stating
which ones we prefer and which ones we
don't yeah and so if we prefer not to
have an emotion then we're going to
avoid it and then like avoiding it's
it's that's going to invite the emotion
that we're avoiding
but with the emotions that we actually
do prefer
or think we prefer there's actually
something uncomfortable about them often
and it's that other emotion that we're
actually avoiding which is why we end up
feeling the other thing and not the not
the emotion we think we want so like
avoiding feeling Joy doesn't make us
full of joy
avoiding feeling Joy makes us feel the
thing that we're actually feeling when
we're avoiding Joy
which might be
you know might be the shame around being
exuberant yes
that's right that's right and it's a
great way to put it and the other thing
that I would say is
there does seem to be like a
um
there does seem to be a thing where
people need to break through the shame
and judgment and
um
guilt so that they can feel the negative
emotions and then once those are felt
then the positive emotions come
and the positive emotions are also scary
they're very big they're very expansive
the positive emotions make not a lot of
room for you as an as a
as an entity or like as a doesn't make
they don't make a lot of room for your
identity when you are in Bliss there's
like it's more like you're one with
everything and less like you are you and
so there's a scariness to that and
there's like a wow what's like fears
come up like how will I relate to people
or I might just like go off into the
infinite and you know not come back or
what if I'm just like sitting there
laughing in a coffee shop all by myself
where everyone's gonna think I'm crazy
or what wow I'm happy all the time
everyone's looking at me like what's
wrong with me you know there's all sorts
of fears that come along with
with that level of of joy and ecstasy
and so when you
stop to repeat myself here to when you
constrict on any of them it brings you
into negative emotions
it brings you back up the ladder right
so if you constrict on Joy or
the the joyous emotions you're going to
be back into the
fear and
and anger and helplessness and if you
constrict on those you're going to be
back in the shame and the judgment and
the
yeah yeah so welcoming the feeling of
being out of control
allows us to have the feeling of
uncontrollable laughter
right
have that experience I like that yeah
exactly that's exactly it
yeah so that's that's it that's the
golden algorithm and that's and it's you
know if you blend that with some of the
view practices and some of the emotional
inquiry practices and and
they create so much Freedom so quickly
so I I
it's such a it's such an exciting thing
and the the reason that I came up with
it
is because I noticed my brain was doing
that calculus
every time I was working with clients
I'm working with clients I'm like oh
okay here it is here's the here's the
thing that if we if we learn to accept
this this problem starts to dissipate if
we learn to love and accept and welcome
this
then the problem starts to dissipate
yeah yeah and I noticed a lot of times
where the where that process gets
stopped is when people end in a story
and then that's that's just the ground
truth like and that's and then that's
bad it's like well the company will fall
apart yeah exactly yeah well what would
you feel if a company falls apart yeah
exactly companies fall apart all the
time and people live on and
like what what is it that you'd actually
be experiencing in that moment
beyond the story
yeah exactly and then what the odd part
is is that when we fully grieve or feel
that feeling that we'd have to feel the
company falls apart it's so much less
likely for it to fall apart
and if it does fall apart it falls apart
so much better in such a way that
benefits us so much more than if we're
resisting the whole thing
yeah yeah awesome beautiful thank you so
much man that was exciting I'm so glad I
got to explain this this has been a
doozy to really get out so I appreciate
your help in that
yeah I loved it I enjoyed it
all right thank you everybody for
listening and remember if you can find
an example of a problem yeah you know
relevant to Joe's challenge if you can
find an example of a problem where this
doesn't work please send it in if you
can find a problem where you're not
avoiding an emotion please let us know
all right yeah awesome thank you all
right bye Brett
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign
[Music]